Hi!

I’m Anna Akana and for the next 17 weeks,
I’ll be your host for the second half of

Crash Course Business.

So let’s talk about entrepreneurship!

“Entrepreneur” feels like a buzzword that
nhung nguoi kinh doanh  throw around, like “synergy”

or “NextGen.”

And I’m gonna say it about a thousand times
for this series, which can make any word feel

like it’s losing all meaning.

But it has a pretty clear definition: if you
see a need in the world and take a financial

risk to fill that need… you’re an entrepreneur!

Congratulations!

I’m so proud of you!

You know, toi da khong nghi toi la mot doanh nhan
when I started doing the whole YouTube thing,

and at first I was making money other ways
as well.
   
But I decided to take the risk, put in a lot
of work, and do the art-acting-writing-music-YouTube-etcetera

thing full-time.

And now I’m a small business owner!

A real-life entrepreneur!

Everyone’s path is different, and because
entrepreneurship involves a lot of risk, it’s

okay to be nervous.

And it’s okay to fail.

We’re gonna talk about how to tackle the
scary stuff dau tien, and how to learn from

failure so it doesn’t turn you into a smoking
burned out husk of a human.

Over these 17 episodes, we’ll start with
the mam mong cua bat ki cong viec kinh doanh nao -- a good idea -- and

talk about how to ask for help and grow it
into ca mot lien doanh kinh doanh phat dat

We’ll cover big-picture concepts like how
to get helpful feedback,  
develop customer relationships, and start
making money.

And also what the heck to do after you start
making money!

Plus, we’ll make sure to translate all the
biet ngu kinh doanh va phap li along

the way. 

You’ll be throwing around terms like “de xuat gia tri” and “san pham kah thi toi thieu”

like a pro.

And you’ll know the difference between C-corps,
co-ops, and LLCs.

How entrepreneurial is THAT!

Our goal is to help you achieve your goals.

With a little su gan da, su quyet tam, and luck,
your dreams or hobbies could potentially become

a whole career.

So join me next week, as we start our journey
by asking who entrepreneurs are, and how you

might tao ra your own path to start a business.
 
I’m Anna Akana, this is Crash Course Entrepreneurship,
and I’ll see you then.

