Our last episode brought us to the start of
the 20th century, where early, special purpose

computing devices, like tabulating machines,
were a huge loi ich to chinh phu va  kinh doanh. 
aiding and sometimes replacing, cong viec thu cong lap di lap 
lai. But the scale of human systems tiep tuc tang voi toc do chua tung co.
The first half of the 20th century saw the

world’s population almost double. World
War 1 huy dong 70 million people, and World

War 2 lien quan more than 100 million.
Global mang luoi thuong mai va van chuyen became ket noi
voi nhau hon bao h het, and the sophistication
of no luc ve khoa hoc va ki thuat cua  chung toi

reached new heights – we even started to
nghiem thuc xem xet viec den tham cac  hanh tinh khac

And it was this su bung no cua su phuc, quan lieu,
and cuoi cung la data, 
----------------------------------------
dieu do da thuc day nhu cau ngya cang tang ve automation and computation.
Soon those cabinet-sized electro-mechanical

computers grew into room-sized behemoths that
were ton kem de bao tri va de bi loi

And it was these machines that would tao tien de cho
su doi moi trong tuong lai

One of the largest electro-mechanical computers

built was the Harvard Mark I, completed in
1944 by IBM for the Allies during World War 2.

It contained 765,000 components, three
million connections, and five hundred miles of wire.

To keep its dong bo co hoc ben trong,

it used a 50-foot shaft running right through
the machine dieu khien boi dong co  5 ma luc.

One of the earliest uses for this technology
was chya mo phong for the Manhattan Project.

The brains of these huge electro-mechanical

beasts were relays: cong tac co hoc duoc dieu
khien bang dien. In a relay, there is
------------------------------------------
a control wire that xac dinh mot mach dien duoc
mo hay dong. The control wire connects

to mot cuon day ben trong ro le. When current
flows through the coil, mot dien tu truong duoc
tao ra, which in turn,thu hut mot canh tay kim loai
ben trong ro le, snapping it

shut and completing the circuit. ban co the nghi role 
giong nhu mot voi nuoc. The control

wire is like the faucet handle. Open the faucet,
and nuoc chay qua duogn ong. Close the

faucet, and the flow of water stops.

Relays are doing the same thing, just with

electrons instead of water. The controlled
circuit can then connect to other circuits,

or to something like a motor, which might
increment a count on a gear, like in Hollerith's

tabulating machine we talked about last episode.
----------------------------------------------------
Unfortunately,cach tay co khi ben trong ro le co
khoi luong, and therefore can’t
move instantly between opened and closed states.

A good relay in the 1940’s might be able
to chuyen qua lai nam muoi lan trong mot giay.

That might seem pretty fast, but it’s not
du nhanh de huu ich khi giai quyet van de lon,

phuc tap.
The Harvard Mark I could do 3 additions or

subtractions per second; multiplications took
6 seconds, and divisions took 15.

And more complex operations, nhu mot ham luong giac, could take over a minute.

In addition to slow switching speed, another
limitation was hao mon. Anything mechanical

that moves will hao mon theo thoi gian. Some things
break entirely, and other things start getting

dinh, cham va don gian la khong dang tin cay.
-----------------------------------------------------
va khi so luong relay tang, the

probability of a failure increases too. The
Harvard Mark I co khoang 3500 relays. Even

if ban gia su mot relay co tuoi tho hoat dong la 10 nam
, this would mean you’d have

to replace, on average, mot relay bi loi moi ngya
! That’s a van de lon khi ban dang chay some important,
multi-day calculation.

And dieu do khong phai la tat ca cac ki su phai doi mat. 
These huge, dark, and warm machines

also  thu hut con trung. In September 1947,
operators on the Harvard Mark II pulled a

con buom dem chet tu mot relay bi truc trac. Grace Hopper who 
we’ll talk more about in a later episode noted,

“tu do tro di, when anything went wrong with a computer,

we said it had bugs in it.”

And that’s where
we get the term computer bug.
-------------------------------------------------------
It was clear that mot su thay the nhanh hon, dang tin cay
hon cho relay dien co was

needed if computing was going to advance further,
and fortunately that alternative already existed!

In 1904, English physicist John Ambrose Fleming
developed a new electrical component called

mot van nhiet dien, which dat 2 dien duc ben trong
mot bong den thuy tinh kin khi - this was the

ong chan dau tien. One of the electrodes could
be heated, dieu nay se khien no phat  electrons

– a process called phat xa nhiet.
dien cuc kia sau do co the hut cac electron nay
to create the flow of our electric
faucet, but only if it duoc tich dien duong

- if it had a negative or neutral charge,
the electrons would no longer bi hut trong chan khong
 so no current would flow.
---------------------------------------------
An electronic component that cho phep dong dien mot chieu
is called a diode, but nhung gi thuc su can thiet la mot cai
cong tac to help turn

this flow on and off. Luckily, shortly after,
in 1906, American inventor Lee de Forest added

mot dien cuc dieu khien thu 3 sits
between the two electrodes in Fleming’s design.

By applying a positive charge to the
control electrode, it would permit the flow

of electrons as before. But if the dien cuc dieu khien
duoc cung cap mot dien tich am, it

would prevent the flow of electrons.
So by manipulating the control wire, one could

open or close the circuit. It’s pretty much
the same thing as a relay - but importantly,

ong chan khong khong co bo phan chuyen dong. This meant
there was less wear, and more importantly,

they could switch thousands of times per second.
----------------------------------------------
nhung ong chan khong triode se tro thanh co so 
cua radio, long distance telephone, and
nhieu thiet bi dien tu khac trong gan nua the ki
. I should note here that vacuum
tubes weren’t perfect - chung thuoc loai mong manh
, and can chay nhu bong den,
they were a cai tien lon so voi relay co hoc.

Also, ban dau ong chan khong thi dat

– a radio set often used just one, but a
computer co the yeu cau hang tram hoac hang nghin cong
tac dien.

But by the 1940s,
chi phi va do tin cay cua chung da duoc cai thien den muc
chung tro nen kha thi de su dung trong may tinh
. at least by people with deep pockets, like governments.
dieu nay danh dau su thay doi from electro-mechanical

computing to electronic computing. Let’s
go to the Thought Bubble.

viec su dung quy mo lon dau tien cua ong chan khong de
tinh toan was the Colossus Mk 1 designed
--------------------------------------------------------
by engineer Tommy Flowers and completed in
December of 1943. The Colossus was installed

at Bletchley Park, in the UK, va da giup giai ma thong tin
lien lac cua duc quoc xa

dieu nay nghe co ve quen thuoc  because two years
prior Alan Turing, often called the father

of computer science, da tao ra mot thiet bi co dien
, also at Bletchley Park, called the

Bombe. no la mot co may co dien duoc thiet ke de
pha ma enigma, but the

Bombe ve mat ki thuat khong phai la mot may tinh, and
chung ta se xem xet nhung dong gop cua alan turing
later.
Anyway, the first version of Colossus contained

1,600 vacuum tubes, and in total, ten Colossi
duoc xay dung de giup pha ma

Colossus duoc coi la may tinh dien, co the lap trinh duoc  
dau tien.
------------------------------------------------
lap trinh duoc thuc hien bang cach cam hang tram soi 
day vao cac phic cam, sort of like old

school telephone switchboards, in order to
thiet lap may tinh de thuc hien cac hoat dong phu hop

So while “programmable”, no van phai duoc cau hinh de
thuc hien mot phep tinh cu the.

Enter the The Electronic Numerical Integrator
and Calculator – or ENIAC – completed

a few years later in 1946 at the University
of Pennsylvania.

Designed by John Mauchly and J. Presper Eckert, day la
may tinh dien tu co muc dich chung, co the lap trinh duoc
thuc su dau tien tren the gioi.

ENIAC could perform 5000 ten-digit additions
or subtractions per second, many, many times

faster than any machine that came before it.
-----------------------------------------------------
no da hoat dong trong 10 nam, and is estimated

to da thuc hien nhieu so hoc hon toan bo loai nguoi
cho den thoi diem do.

nhung cung voi do, nhieu loi ong chan khong da xay
ra pho bien, and ENIAC was generally only operational

trong khoang nua ngay truoc khi do vo.

Thanks Thought Bubble. By the 1950’s, tham chi may tinh
 dua tren ong chan khogn da dat den gioi han cua no.

The US Air Force’s AN/FSQ-7 computer,
which was completed in 1955, was part of the

“SAGE” air defense computer system we’ll
talk more about in a later episode.

To reduce cost and size, as well as improve
reliability and speed, a radical new electronic

switch would be needed. In 1947, Bell Laboratory
scientists John Bardeen, Walter Brattain,
------------------------------------------------
and William Shockley da phat minh ra transistor,
and with it, mot ki nguyen may tinh hoan toan moi duoc
ra doi!

vat dang sau dong ban dan la
pretty complex, dua vao co hoc luong tu,

so we’re going to bam vao nhung dieu co ban.

A transistor is just like a relay or vacuum
tube - it’s a switch that can be opened

or closed bang cach su dung nang luong dien thong qua
mot day dieu khien. Typically, transistors have

two electrodes duoc ngan cach boi mot vat lieu that
sometimes can dan dien, and other

times can tro no – a semiconductor.
In this case, the control wire attaches to

a “gate” electrode. bang cach thay doi dien tich cua cong
, the conductivity of the

semiconducting material can be manipulated,
allowing current to flow or be stopped – like
su tuong tu cua voi nuoc we discussed earlier.
---------------------------------------------
Even the very first transistor at Bell Labs

cho thay day su hua hen– it could switch
between on and off states 10,000 times per second.

Further, khong giong nhu ong chan khong duoc lam bang
thuy tinh va duoc treo can than, thanh phan de vo,
transistors were solid material known as a solid state component.

Almost immediately, bong ban dan co the duoc lam nho hon
so voi ro le hoac ong chan khong nho nhat co the.

dieu nay dan den cac may tinh nho hon va re hon dang ke, like the IBM 608, released in 1957

– the first fully transistor-powered, commercially-available computer.

It contained 3000 transistors and
could perform 4,500 additions, or roughly

80 multiplications or divisions, every second.
IBM sda som chuyen doi tat ca cac san pham may tinh cua 
minh sang bong ban dan, bringing transistor-based
computers into offices, and eventually, homes.

Today, may tinh su dung bong ban dan co kich thuoc 
nho hon 50 nanomet – for

reference, a sheet of paper is roughly 100,000
nanometers thick.va chung khong chi cuc ki nho ma con
sieu nhanh – they can switch
states millions of times per second, and can run for decades.

rat nhieu su phat trien cua bong ban dan va chat ban dan
nay happened in the Santa Clara  Valley,

between San Francisco and San Jose, California.

vi vat lieu pho bien nhat duoc su dung de tao ra chat 
ban dan la silicon, this

region soon became known as Silicon Valley.
Even William Shockley moved there, founding

Shockley Semiconductor, whose employees later
founded Fairchild Semiconductors, whose employees
later founded Intel - the world’s largest computer chip
maker today.

Ok, so we’ve gone from relays to vacuum
tubes to transistors. We can turn electricity

on and off really, really, really fast. But
how do we get from transistors to actually

computing something, especially if we don’t
have motors and gears?

That’s what we’re going to cover over
the next few episodes.

Thanks for watching. See you next week.

