What makes someone an entrepreneur?

Am I an entrepreneur?

Are you an entrepreneur?

Do I know any entrepreneurs?

no co di truyen khong?

Can I catch it?

no co chet nguoi khong?

Wait, what?

The word “entrepreneur” seems to be thrown
around everywhere for everyone doing anything.

It’s used to describe celebrities and ong trum kinh doanh
like Beyoncé, Elon Musk, Marie Kondo,

and Jessica Alba.

But your brother who keeps nuoi duong his
idea for kem danh rang vi ca phe might
----------------------------------------------------------
make the list too.

Mmm!

Entrepreneurs pop-up in all types of industries
and can have widely different backgrounds.

Some build personal brands, while others lam viec
khong biet met moi on a physical product they believe in.

Really, anyone can be an entrepreneur, given
an idea and the right tools to develop it

into a functional business.

Together, we’ll develop our su nhay ben trong kinh doanh
and learn the importance of grit, determination,

and a fair bit of luck.

I’m Anna Akana, and this is Crash Course
Business: Entrepreneurship.

[Opening Music Plays]

Some people define an entrepreneur with buzzwords
like “trailblazing,” “sang tao,”

“problem-solving,” "dam me,” and
on and on.

These might all be cac dac diem that entrepreneurs
can phan dau for.

But, at its core, an entrepreneur is someone
who sees a need and takes on the financial

risk to start a business to fill that need.

That may sound kind of kho hieu, but that’s
kind of the point.

There’s no cookie-cutter entrepreneur.

Unless you, like, start a business to sell
cookie cutters.

In which case, yes, there is a cookie-cutter
entrepreneur.
========================================
Your idea might take the form of a physical
product with a physical store -- called a

kinh doanh tryen thong.

In Montana, Charlie and Barbie Beaton of Big
Dipper Ice Cream

co nien dam me voi  locally made ice cream
from one shop in trung tam  Missoula to appearing

on Good Morning America.

Daaaaaamn.

Or instead of a san pham huu hinh, your venture
might be a mang luoi trao quyen quoc gia.

GirlBoss New Zealand was founded by 20-year-old
Alexia Hilbertidou after she was the only

woman in her upper-level physics class.

Her goal is encouraging high-school-age women
to theo duoi STEM and leadership careers.

Or you might set your sights on an de che truyen thong 
truc tuyen quoc te like Arianna Huffington,

the founder and namesake of HuffPost.
------------------------------------------
She founded her site (voi doi tac) as a
friendly alternative to news aggregators.

And she eventually sold it to AOL in 2015
for $315 million US dollars.

Get it, Ari. 

It’s clear that entrepreneurs come in all
flavors. 

I mean, according to the giam sat kinh doanh
toan cau, over 100 million businesses are launched

each year.

That’s 11,000 per hour or 3 new businesses
per second.

...There they go!

So instead of just defining who is an entrepreneur,
since it is such a wide scope - thay vao do chung  ta
co the thu hep our definition by understanding
who isn’t one.
---------------------------------------------
Let’s go to the Thought Bubble.

Say Congress works for Me-Wow, cong ty suc khoe va the 
chat cho meo.

He notices a need -- a shocking lack of cat
transportation -- and comes up with the idea

for the Cat-Cycle, which anh ay bay to cho ong chu 
cua minh.

Me-Wow immediately sends the Cat-Cycle into
production because no la mot y tuong thien tai, obvi

and it flies off the shelves.

Even though Congress is using an entrepreneurial
mindset, by our definition, he isn’t an

entrepreneur yet.

The company Me-Wow actually took the financial
risk to develop, produce, and sell the Cat-Cycle.

Meanwhile, Beetle sees the same need for cat
transportation and phac thao the Cat-Board
-----------------------------------
in his personal idea notebook after work.

anh ay da co duoc kinh nghiem quy bau khi lam viec
for Me-Wow and develops the Cat-Board in the

evenings and on weekends before  tu minh xuat hien.

Using his personal savings, Beetle gui mot mau thu nghiem
that he shops around to local stores.

A few are interested and he sets up contracts
with them.

As his sales begin to grow, Beetle creates
new designs, but he doesn’t pay attention

to what his customers like or dislike about
the Cat-Board.

Because he failed to make nhung cai tien dang gia
to the Cat-Board for his customers, doanh so ban hang 
giam manh.
-------------------------------------------
It’s mot quyet dinh kho khan, but Beetle cuts his
losses and sells his Cat-Board designs to

Me-Wow, which cai tien his idea as the Dog-Board.

Beetle is an entrepreneur because he saw a need and

took the financial risk to fill it!

It didn’t go so well because he didn’t
ket hop phan hoi cua khach hang.

But now he knows where he went wrong and won’t
make the same mistake in his next no luc kinh doanh

Thanks Thought Bubble!

For a while, cau chuyen kinh dien cua mot doanh nhan
was someone who created one business that

became a long-term project,

like opening a new restaurant or founding
a tech startup to make tro choi dien thoai hao nhoang.
------------------------------------------------
But that’s not the whole picture anymore.

There’s been a shift in the global job market
that has opened the door for entrepreneurship

to become more mainstream.

Specifically, I’m talking about the rise
of the Gig Economy.

Contract work, called gigging, is becoming
more popular and chiem linh nhieu thi truong lao dong 
hon.

And I don’t just mean gigs like musicians
and nghe si hai nhay between open mic nights.

Instead of a long-term relationship where
employees are paid salaries by the hour or

year, businesses danh tam thoi tuyen dung people
for specific projects.
-----------------------------------------
This shift has made it de dang hon ve mat tai
chinh cho doanh nhan to find people to get their

businesses going, ma khong phai cam ket tra luong lau
dai cho nguoi lao dong.

And it’s allowed doanh nhan giai doan dau
to find flexible work to support themselves

as they develop their product or service.

This doesn’t mean everyone in the gig economy
is an entrepreneur, it’s just given more

people the opportunity.

So a more traditional path might be joining
an cong ti ke toan right after college and

working 9 to 5, Monday to Friday until you
retire.

Or die of boredom.

Spreadsheets?
-------------------------------------
For LIFE??

NO THANKS


Some people might cam thay thoa man with that
kind of viec lam on dinh.

And the su on dinh that comes from being a
salaried employee with health insurance can

be gia tri vo cung

Others, like us entrepreneurs, might itch
for more independence.

In the gig economy, you could have a couple
ways to make money, in addition to or instead

of that 9-to-5 job.

And you can go online to look for gigs from
anywhere -- not just your real-life community.

So you might tham khao y kien cua mot magn luoi phu nu
small business owners on their day-to-day

accounting, create vlogs with tax software
tips, and sell unicorn knit hats on Etsy that are knit out of the  vai men nhat there is.
-------------------------------------------------------
On the plus side, this allows workers to build
danh muc cong viec manh me and find hop dong thoa man.

Having separate jobs can also provide mot cam giac
an toan hon ve thu nhap than one full-time

job.

Even if you lose one, you’re still making
money.

All hail the cong viec lam them!

Today’s doanh nhan rat phu hop for
the gig economy because we know how to hustle.

We’re independent thinkers who are comfortable
with phat trien cac dong thu nhap da dang cua chung ta,

marketing ourselves, and connecting with others.

I mean, who hasn’t had a Lyft driver who
moonlights as a cinnamon roll artisan, right?
---------------------------------------------
But there are still problems with the loi song 
doanh nhan.

Sure, someone might become a Lyft driver to
giup tai tro cho giac mo ngot ngao cua ho.

But they’re gan nhu chac chan not doing it
because dua nguoi la di xung quanh is their
passion.

For some people, participating in the gig
economy is a necessity, not a choice.

tranh gianh de tra tien thue nha va du tien an is
another reason to have a bunch of gigs.

And, depending on the country and government,
gig workers can co it hon nhung su bao ve phap li

- like ngay nghi bat buoc and luong tieu chuan
-- or they might gap kho khan hon trong viec dduy tri

insurance and retirement accounts.

This makes some countries tro nen hap dan
hon doi voi doanh nhan, such as New Zealand, Singapore,
----------------------------------------------------
and Denmark, based on The World Bank’s annual
analysis of the “Ease of Doing Business.”

But even in those countries, there’s a difference
between co the nghi ngoi mot cach hop phap

and thuc su nghi ngoi

It can be a cuoc dau trannh de dap tat the hustle
-- especially for those of us trying to create

a personal brand with our art or su dien dien online.

But taking time for fun hobbies and spending
time with friends and family are important

parts of being successful, and so necessary
to du tinh than khoe manh. Trust me!

So it’s not all blue skies and rainbows.

But if you ever wanted to be an entrepreneur,
the gig economy has made it more possible

now than ever.

Even still, entrepreneurship isn’t easy.
----------------------------------------------------
tham gia mot canh bac tai chinh is stressful, and
so is working long hours to co gang hoan thanh mot
du an.

I know for me, the lack of structured work
time often means that my business has no off
time.

And if I’m not careful, I can lam viec suot
ngay dem and get myself exhausted.

But tons of us take the leap to start a new
business and gan bo voi no qua nhung thang
tram, so what exactly keeps us motivated?

At the top of the list is freedom.

Entrepreneurs get to be their own bosses.

This can mean setting your own hours and deciding
on dress codes... hoac thieu dieu do.

Sweatpants all day everyday amirite?

Maybe you want to work from bed or while you
travel, writing emails by a pool.
-----------------------------------------------
And for cac nhom truyen trong it duoc dai dien
in business like women, people of color, or

the LGBTQ community, ding ding ding,
I am all those things. It can mean defining

your own destiny.

You can create an van hoa cong ti
va moi truong lam viec hoa nhap, rather than feeling

stuck in an uncomfortable -- or even possibly
illegal -- situation with a boss or coworker.

If someone keeps noi ve ban va noi mot cach mien cuong
 women can’t be funny, you don’t need

to hire them for your writer’s room or film
set.

Or if a coworker from a previous job got fired
for having a natural hairstyle, you can create

a business where that would never happen.

You wield the power.
-------------------------------------------------
A study in the Social Science Research Network
journal found that entrepreneurs start companies

because they mostly believe that:

ho von di co gia tri hon than how
they appear on paper.

They are wasted working for someone else

Their resumes don’t show “the real them”

Large companies can’t appreciate their full
potential.

And
ho co kha nang bien gia tri ben trong
into real life money.

Basically, entrepreneurs believe in themselves.

And sure, building self-confidence over time
isn’t always easy, but it can be a powerful
motivator.
-----------------------------------------------
And then, there’s potential wealth.

Yes, there’s financial risk in starting
a business, but there’s money in running

a successful one.

truyen thuyet kinh doanh day ray nhung cau chuyen
giau co tu rach ruoi, where people quang cao the next 
SnapChat and are launched into thetang binh luu kinh 
doanh.

Like, Oprah Winfrey has said she spent her
early childhood wearing ao yem lam bang bao tai dung 
khoai tay

But she became North America’s first black
multi-billionaire and “Queen of the Daytime

Talkshow.”

Sure, this is the stuff of ap phich day cam hung,
and not everyone can make it this big.
----------------------------------------------
But entrepreneurship does create a culture
of opportunity that co the lam viec cho mot so cong nhan
phi truyen thong.

Of course, every entrepreneur with a massive
success has also had hundreds of failures.

Yep, tu f dang so.

phuong phap khoi nhiep tinh gon is basically the
sach huong dan duoc cong nhan tren toan cau
for entrepreneurs created by Steve Blank and Eric Ries.

And it says vap nga la hoan toan tot if
we learn as we go.

But to identify and learn from failures, every
entrepreneur has to ask themselves: what does

success look like to me?

Is it earning $30,000 a year in your food
truck and skiing every weekend?

Is it selling your idea for a million dollars?
----------------------------------------------- 
Is it becoming the CEO of a mid-size media
production company and writing novels on the

side?

Thanks for hiring us, Hank!

Also where is the sequel and when can I star
in the movie adaptation?

Or is it owning 6 cats and producing your
own films?

Whatever success is, it’s entirely up to you.

Of course no one wants to fail.

But together we’ll learn how to redefine
failure and pick up the pieces if it’s truly

unavoidable.

It’s not that successful entrepreneurs never
faced failure; it’s that they didn’t quit.

So the bottom line is /anyone/ can be an entrepreneur
with a little grit, determination, and luck.

And remember, you may have stopped believing
in unicorns, but they’ve never stopped believing

in you.

Next time, we’ll talk about that fundamental
piece at the core of any entrepreneur: their

ideas -- where ideas come from, who to take
them to, and how to turn them into doanh nghiep kha thi

Thanks for watching Crash Course Business. And thank you to Thought Cafe for the amazing graphics.

If you want to help keep Crash Course free
for everybody, forever, you can join our community

on Patreon.

And if you want to learn more about labor
markets, check out this Crash Course Economics Video.

 