cho du do la bong den co dien o tren dau chung ta
or a “Eureka!” moment, chung toi tuong tuong y tuong nay
ra tu bo nao cua nhung nguoi sang tao 
 -- like we all live in some cartoon

universe, mot so it may man trong chung ta da thanh cong 
voi cam hung.

Maybe you’re wondering whether entrepreneurship
is for you, because you don’t think you’ve

had any great ideas, but just WAIT!

boi vi chung ta deu co the nhan duoc chung

Or maybe you have an idea and you’re not
sure what to do next.

lam the nao de ban cho an , tuoi nuoc va nuoi duong
hat giong be nho nay de no phat trien thanh mot doanh
nghiep toan dien?

Don’t worry, we’ve got you.

I’m Anna Akana and this is Crash Course
Business: Entrepreneurship.
-------------------------------------------------------
[Opening Music Plays]

doanh nhan khong phai la mot nhom nguoi dac biet
co nang khieu voi tat ca nhung y tuong hay.

They believe in themselves and tgia tri cua y tuong
cua ho du de chap nhan rui ro tai chinh de bien no
thanh hien thuc.

Looking back at the people we now think of
as great entrepreneurs, nhung nguoi nay chi dang tim 
cach lam cho cuoc song de dang hon hoac tot hon bang
mot cach nao do -- from inventing the wheel to

dreaming up the dishwasher.

nhung chinh xac dieu gi da khoi day tri tuong tuong
cua ho

What was their apple falling from a tree?

cac y tuong doi moi co the truy tim tu ba nguon:
nien dam me cua chung ta , su phan nan cua chung ta,
va cai toi cua chung ta

Let’s start with the exciting one: our passions.

If you weren’t working at your current job
or going to school, what would you do?

nhieu y tuong den tu viec chung ta hao hung voi
cai gi do ve muon chia se no voi the gioi.

It could be Grandma’s cong thuc nuoc sot,
huong dan tro choi dien tu, or upcycled yard

sale furniture.

Sometimes you start doing something as a hobby,
like art.

nhung sau do, ban co the nhan duoc yeu cau hoa hong
tu nhung nguoi ma ban tham chi khong biet.

So, if you take a risk, that hobby could become
a full-time job.
---------------------------------------------------------------
Next, there are complaints.

There must be something that bugs you, whether
do la tai nghe roi hay thieu phim do phu nu lam dao dien.

dropbox duoc thanh lap vi mot nguoi nao do kho chiu,
ho lien tuc quen usb cua ho

Under Armour was founded because ai do cam thay met moi
vi chiec ao so mi cua ho uot dam mo hoi they

had to change it multiple times during one
workout.

So if you’ve ever found yourself thinking,
“Wow, I really wish someone would do something

about that,” guess what?

You can do something about it!

And, of course, there are the “I can do
it better” ideas.

Everyone has them!
=============================================================
cai toi cua chung ta la mot noi tuyet voi de tim kiem su doi moi
va dong luc

Maybe you visit the same coffee shop every
morning and after coc bun nong thu mot nghin
, you are so done.

You could make a much better cup of coffee!

va nhung chiec coc co the phan huy duoc

And the tip jar se co mot tro dua di dom!

va ban se co banh nuong moi

hay de su phan lo tiep nhien lieu cho ban

Think of something that needs freshening up.

Uber and Lyft looked at the taxi industry
and thay mot thu gi do loi thoi va vung ve

So they made ung dung dep mat with automated payments
and directions.
-----------------------------------------------
Now, obviously, co the co nhung su chong cheo giua
ba dong luc nay.

You might be able to make a better cup of
coffee than the big chain in town -- that’s

ego.

But that’s only because ban thich ca phe
va thu nghiem voi cac ki thuat and “blends”

at home -- that’s passion.

And maybe that hobby started because there
weren’t any coffee shops in your neighborhood

-- that’s complaint.

cho du ban co mot cuon so ghi chep day ap y tuong hay
khong, you do have experiences, opinions,

and a whole complicated life.

And these are the nen tang cua su doi moi khoi nghiep.
-------------------------------------------------------
vi vay buoc dau tien la thua nhan rang ban co 
mot y tuong

Step two is understanding the problem at the
root of your idea.

Think of your idea as the beginning.

You may have your own experience of a certain
problem, but by understanding what others

think, your idea can grow and affect more
people.

vi vay khi ban dang tro chuyen ve mot chuoi cua
hang ca phe lon do voi ban be cua minh, listen to what

they say.

Have they been there?

What do they like?

What do they hate?

Maybe they complain, “noi do la mot moi nguy hiem
chi suc khoe va dich vu cua ho that te.”
------------------------------------------------
Or they say, “I never go there because I
only drink tea.”

So,su dung thong tin chi tiet nhanh do de thuc
hien y tuong cua ban tot hon.

Maybe your coffee shop will focus on excellent
staff training to ensure high quality coffee,

cleanliness, and customer service.

va ban se chung cap rat nhieu loai tra cung voi
nhung chiec may pha ca phe thu cong do.

Even after you understand the problem,van con nhieu
viec phai lam.

Let’s look at my latest big idea.

It’s great, right?

But now that I’ve told you, I’m going
to have to kill you!

Sorry, I got a little dramatic there.
-----------------------------------------------
khi  chung ta co nhung y tuong moi thu vi, ban 
nang dau tien cua chung ta la loai bo chung de
khong ai co the danh cap chung

But that’s bad.

When we keep things to ourselves, we end up
thinking shoe umbrellas are the next big thing.

We have to share our ideas with the people
who are thuc su se su dung san phan hoac dich vu.

neu khong, cac giai phap cua chung ta se ke thua
nhung diem mu va thanh kien cua chung ta

chung co the khong thuc su giai quyet duoc van de,
or they might only be useful for a few people.

Let’s explore this in the Thought Bubble.

My friend Mary Cherry is deeply passionate
about cream puffs.
--------------------------------------------------------
co ay cung bi di ung voi gluten

Mary was complaining that khong co cua hang abnh su kem 
nao trong toan bo thanh pho cua co ay, so she launched

mot cua hang banh ngot khong chua gluten called Dream Puffs
on her block.

Now, mary rat nhiet tinh trong viec bien uoc mo cua minh
thanh hien thuc that she didn’t talk to

potential customers or even her friend and
nguoi sanh banh kem bong lan Paul before

launching.

She put in lots of time and money to set up
her shop, complete with color-coordinated

mixers, a chic logo, va mot vai huong vi cua cong thuc
lam banh banh kem khong chua gluten.

During the grand opening, Dream Puffs gay duoc tieng vang 
----------------------------------------------
nhung khi tuan dau tien troi qua, nhieu khach hang tien
nang khong mua banh su kem khong chua gluten cua co ay

Most of the people who show up have more than
mot chung di ung

Mary’s cream puffs are gluten-free, but
tat ca cac mon ngon cua co ay deu chua kem-- she

didn’t think about using khong sua options
for people with di ung voi sua hoc khong dung nap lactose

And her non-basic flavors involve nuts like
hat de cuoi va hanh nhanh, but a lot of her potential

customers have nut allergies.

These are pretty huge setbacks.
--------------------------------------------------
So now Mary has to spend more time and money
to develop new recipes and make sure that

the quality -- and her star-baker reputation
-- is maintained.

And she has to retrain her staff.

If Mary had been willing to share her menu,
she could have optimized her cream puff ideas

for potential customers before launching.

And she could’ve stirred up even more hype
and brand recognition for Dream Puffs on her

opening day.

Thanks, Thought Bubble!

It’s easy for us to judge a story, but who
would you share an idea with?

Your mom?

Your trusted friends?
------------------------------------------------------
Everyone on your morning bus ride?

rot cuoc, mot chiec xe byt chi la chiec xe limo day nhung
nguoi ban chua tung gap

It depends on the idea, but generally at this
early stage, we want to target two main types

of people.

First,nhung khach hang nguoi co the gap su co ma chung ta
dang co gang giai quyet.

And second,nguoi  co the co the giup chung ta suy nghi
thau dao y tuong cua minh

We can also look to professionals who might
be able to connect us to nhung doanh nhanh thanh danh

in the field or available resources.

For example, we could look for a college campus
with professors in entrepreneurship or tu van ve kinh 
doanh.
------------------------------------------------
Or turn to cac nhom ket noi kinh doanh,
like those in co-working spaces.

And in the U.S., we have Small Business Development
Centers.

Around the world, you can check with your
local government for similar organizations

that provide education and financing for cac doanh nhan 
chom no

tat ca cac lua chon nay deu duoc ket noi tot trong
cong dong doanh nhan and it’s their

goal to mentor, consult, va ket noi cac doanh nghiem non 
tre

Don’t be afraid to lien he va yeu cau giup do

BUT before we thuc hien, we have to
remember: we’re still making sure our idea

is good and talking with potential customers.

This is NOT the finance stage.
---------------------------------------------------
We aren’t asking people for tien von…
yet.

The next step in workshopping an idea is to
think big about the fundamental pieces of

your business.

And a great way to do that is with a business
plan tool like the Business Model Canvas,

mot mau khoi nghiep tinh gon created by a company
called Strategyzer.

Ok cool, yeah, I’ll fill that out in a second.

I’m just finishing page 22 of my business
plan where I discuss exactly which bees will

provide the honey I use to lam ngot tra trong quan ca phe
meo long lay cua minh
----------------------------------------------
Hate to break it to you, but the days of 30-page
business plans are pretty much over -- even

if someday you need financing from a bank
or a venture capitalist.

Most lenders care about your story, proof
your idea works and is wanted, an

understanding of your customers, and your
financial plan, which often takes only 5-10

pages tops.

And the Business Model Canvas has sections
for all those things!

Really, filling out a business plan or Business
Model Canvas lets you collect all your thoughts

about your idea and visualize how your business
might exist.

Let’s explore the canvas using a little
company you’ve probably never heard of:

Netflix.
-----------------------------------------------
For each section, we need to answer a key
question.

We’ll start with de gia tri: What
is the value we deliver to our customers?

Basically, why do they want whatever we’re
selling?

Netflix thuc day cong nghe for global audiences
who want giai tri theo yeu cau, tuy chinh.

Next, we move to the cluster for customers.

Let’s think about our people in three pieces.

First, who even are they?

tat ca cac loai khach hang quan tam den san pham
cua chung ta tao nen phan phan doan khach hang

In 2019, over 50% of Netflix’s business
came from subscribers outside the U.S.

They use internal algorithms to predict and
offer certain programs to certain demographics.
----------------------------------------------------
mot khi chung ta xac dinh duoc khach hang cua
minh la ai , it’s
time to define the relationship in the Customer

Relationships section.

loai moi quan he nao ma khach hang mong doi chung 
ta thiet lap?

Netflix customers expect quality programming,
de xuat du doan tot, excellent customer

service,va hieu xuat cong nghe cao cap.

And then,thong qua kenh nao chung ta noi chuyen voi ho?

How are we reaching our customers?

Netflix uses email, streaming apps, and social
media campaigns to communicate with customers

(they’re even on SnapChat.)

Now that we know the “who,” we need to
describe the infrastructure of our business,
--------------------------------------------------
which also has three pieces.

To start with the basics, what do we actually
do?

These are our Key Activities.

Netflix cap phep cho noi dung san co and creates
their own that they deliver through an online

platform.

And they do all the usual business things
like sales and marketing.

After that, we have to decide what do we need
to do those things?

These are our Key Resources.

Netflix relies on SO MANY resources to keep
their massive wheels turning.
------------------------------------------
They have people making content including
their in-house studios, engineers to make

sure their website and apps work, customer
service to troubleshoot, attorneys to deal

with licensing, internal teams for promotion,
and a global network of data storage facilities

-- to name a few.

Then, remember, we don’t have to do this
alone.

We need to look for Key Partners and ask:
Who do we need to team up with in order to

deliver our value proposition?

Netflix partners with law firms, studios,
agents of actors, and other companies who

want to co-promote products -- like Comcast
Xfinity or T-Mobile.

Finally, after we’ve figured out the who
and the what of our business model, we have

to think about the money.
------------------------------------
Half of that is our Revenue Streams.

Where are we making money?
 
What are customers willing to pay for each
product or service?

As of 2019, Netflix uses three membership
subscriptions: Basic ($7.99/month), Standard

($10.99/month), and Premium ($13.99/month).

Unfortunately, entrepreneurship isn’t free.

There are Costs involved in doing Things for
your People.

So where are we spending money?

For Netflix, examples of costs are employees,
licensing and production fees for content,

servers for data storage, brick and mortar
workplace locations, DVD production and mail,

and R&D.

And… that’s Netflix in a nutshell.

This is exactly the goal of the Business Model
Canvas: to provide a framework for anyone

to break down the pieces of a business -- especially
your future business!

Today, we grew the tiny seed of an idea into
a full business model.

So remember that everyone has ideas, and the
real work of an entrepreneur is in sharing

them and getting lots of feedback!

Next time, we’ll figure out what you’re
worth.

And by that I mean, we’ll delve into Value
Propositions and how to make something that

potential customers will think has inherent
value and is worth monetary investment.

Thanks for watching Crash Course Business.

If you want to help keep Crash Course free
for everybody, forever, you can join our community

on Patreon.

And if you want to learn more about biases
that affect how we do business, check out

our Soft Skills video about making decisions

